# Simulation and Modelling Project: ABM based model for P2P network proliferation in Europe
This repository contains code and further details regarding a project completed as part of the Simulation and Modelling module of the Msc in Data Science and Business Analytics. Below you find the abstract providing greater details as per the content of the research project:

## Abstract
The EU energy market is seeing a progressive transition towards the increasing usage of sustainable energy sources to meet the sustainable development goals of 2030. In this context a plethora of new systems are being considered for large scale implementation, one of which is Peer to Peer (P2P) energy networks. The latter allow individuals to consume and trade self-generated energy (from sources like solar panels) with other individuals that have attached themselves to the P2P grid. A growing body of research has sought to generate accurate ABM models to simulate the impact that P2P system implementation could have on the energy dynamics of local communities. Different models have concentrated their efforts on differing aspects of P2P proliferation, spanning from economic to environmental and social considerations. However, current research lacks the investigation of the potential impact that such systems could have on entire countries’ energy dynamics and on a wider international scale. In this paper we thus aim to observe how the proliferation of a P2P system may affect the electricity trades from non-renewable energy sources between EU countries. To achieve this, we propose a new ABM model capable of modeling the evolution of an early-stage P2P system in a European country of choice. Results have shown a positive impact of the P2P spreading on the reduction of electricity dependencies from non-renewable energy sources across EU countries, and how the proposed ABM allows an accurate modelling of the differing proliferation patterns of P2P systems across the countries being modelled.
